Brady Lund: Alright. Hello, everyone we're going to begin
Brady Lund: right now with our 1st module for the course. And in this module
Brady Lund: we're just going to explore. What is information? Science? I imagine many of you enrolling in this course. We're curious. What is this field? What is this discipline? What are we all about.
Brady Lund: And it's a question that a lot of people
Brady Lund: are curious about. A lot of people don't know what our discipline is about. A lot of people working in our discipline may not even be entirely sure what we're about. So we're going to start off our semester just talking a little bit about that fact.
Brady Lund: So the 1st thing to break down what our discipline is about
Brady Lund: is to look at what is information, and as you'll see from this slide here there are many different ways to define what information is.
Brady Lund: But if you ask me how I would define information, we're going to be looking at this 4th dimension. In particular, information is concerned with information recorded in documents, with meaning, and applied to create knowledge.
Brady Lund: So as we progress through this course, we're going to talk a little bit about the data, information, knowledge, wisdom, pyramid. There's a relationship between these 4 concepts where data is the basic building blocks of stimulus of symbols of communication.
Brady Lund: Data is all around us. We're constantly sensing data and using that to make sense of the world around us. When we see different lights, different inputs, different symbols.
Brady Lund: That's all data
Brady Lund: and data in itself does not have meaning. It's just out there. It just exists. But when we take data, when we take things that we're sensing and symbols that we're seeing, and we make sense of them. And suddenly, we can understand something about our world by organizing this data and arranging it and applying it to what we already know. Then we are
Brady Lund: creating information. Information is data that has meaning something that we can observe something that we can read, something that we can see that has some kind of meaning, that we can do something with it.
Brady Lund: So that is our definition that we're gonna work with as far as information.
Brady Lund: Historically, when we talk about information we're talking about as shown here in this 4th dimension, written
Brady Lund: documented information. We're talking about historical documents. We're talking about tablets.
Brady Lund: artifacts, archaeological finds. Those kinds of things. However, we know today in the current situation, we're in information can take a very wide range of forms. We communicate information when we talk.
Brady Lund: but we also share information when we post something on social media. When we create a video, when we
Brady Lund: wear certain clothing to communicate something about ourselves, we're sharing information with other people. So information can take a variety of forms. And just because the historical focus was on documents storing these written information does not mean that's the only form that we are going to be talking about when we mention information in this course.
Brady Lund: So what is information? Science, then?
Brady Lund: Well, you'll see one definition here. The science and practice of dealing with the effective collection, storage, retrieval, and use of information. But this is the definition that I use when I try to talk to somebody from outside of our discipline about what we do.
Brady Lund: So think about
Brady Lund: all of the technology that's emerging right now in our world. Think about all the information that's out there in the world. I mean, we just
Brady Lund: just mentioned. There's so many different types of information that are being conveyed nowadays, not just in written works, but on social media through videos through what we wear and what we say, that's being collected and can be used as information. So think about all those different forms of information. Think about all the information technologies that we use to convey information.
Brady Lund: If we were from the field of, for instance, computer science, then we're interested in, how are we creating technologies to facilitate and support the spread of information, to develop better technologies? But information science distinguishes itself from computer science in that we are focused on the human side, the human aspects
Brady Lund: societal aspects of how we interact with these forms of information and with these technologies. So when we talk about information science, we're talking about where human practices
Brady Lund: align with our technology.
Brady Lund: So we're highly interdisciplinary in that sense, interdisciplinary means. We take ideas. We take theories. We take ways of viewing the world from other disciplines.
Brady Lund: We do create our own theories and ways of thinking about the world within our discipline as well. But we're not shy about taking from multiple different fields and disciplines to inform what we do. So naturally, because we're looking at how people interact with technology. We're going to take theory. We're going to take some ideas from fields like sociology and psychology. But we're going to have a narrow focus
Brady Lund: applying these ideas and concepts to how people interact with information, how people interact with technology. So what you're going to see over the course of the semester is that this is going to be a focus of a lot of the things a lot of the concepts we talk about. You're going to say, oh, we're studying
Brady Lund: behavior. We're studying psychology, sociology, how it's applied, though, to this context of information and technology. So again, as you can see here, communication change.
Brady Lund: chain of recorded information. So how is information being communicated? How are we taking all of this information that's out here in the world and putting it in a little box so that people can actually find information. They need to use that information and interact with it. If you think about.
Brady Lund: for instance, let's say you you enjoy watching Tiktok. Well, there's millions, if not billions of Tiktok videos out there. How are we organizing and arranging these videos? And so that we can find the
Brady Lund: particular videos that are relevant and interesting to us. How do we find accounts that are interesting to us? Right? So some of that is done with algorithms. But some of that is based off of how we arrange and organize and apply metadata organizational structure to these actual videos we've created and how we're searching for these channels and searching for videos. That informs
Brady Lund: what videos we're actually going to get, what information we're going to get. So that's that's the aspect of this chain we're focused on. How is that information being retrieved? How are we communicating information to other people? And, as it says here, information, science is a vocational discipline.
Brady Lund: That means that most of the people graduating from our discipline, especially at the master's level.
Brady Lund: will be going into a professional practice of some kind.
Brady Lund: So we have professions of librarianship. We have professions of information systems, system, design and development
Brady Lund: database management. Most of the people graduating from our program are going to be going into the field and working in a applied context. Applying this knowledge of how people interact with technology to a specific area
Brady Lund: which differentiates our discipline a fair bit from some of those disciplines I mentioned earlier, like psychology and sociology, where you may have to get an advanced degree, a doctoral degree to really be able to apply what you're talking about in these fields or kind of more general studies. This is a discipline where we're really applying it in a context where we're hoping
Brady Lund: you're going to go and actually use this knowledge and apply it to some context.
Brady Lund: Alright. So the last thing we're gonna look at here in the introduction to this module is what is library and information science. So you may hear
Brady Lund: in some contexts the concept of information science used. You may hear in some other contexts the term library and information science.
Brady Lund: And again, these are these are quite similar.
Brady Lund: as you can see here. It's talking about information, technology and people make information accessible and usable. That's what I've been talking about from the beginning. When we're talking about library and information science. We're really interested in that documentation aspect. Though
Brady Lund: when I when you think about libraries, you think about written word, you think about
Brady Lund: print books, you think about ebooks. You think about
Brady Lund: audio recordings, but these are things that are documented, they're written down. They're recorded. They're stored in a very standardized format.
Brady Lund: And so when we're talking about library and information science as opposed to information science, we're focused more on
Brady Lund: the ways that we're creating, organizing and using information in this kind of documented form, whereas if we talk about information science in its broad context, we may be talking about many different ways of examining many different forms of information, as we'll see later on in this semester, talking about things like
Brady Lund: information, behavior, talking about things like social media and artificial intelligence, we can think of a wide variety of types of information. So we're going to make that distinction a little bit. But but you should know that one of the most common
Brady Lund: areas that a lot of our students go into is library
Brady Lund: science, librarianship. And that's a pretty
Brady Lund: big area within our field. But there are many different possibilities for working with systems working with databases, managing systems and databases human computer interaction. So we have a very broad discipline. And that librarianship, though a big aspect is only one potential. So as you're going through the semester, regardless of what you're interested in within our broad discipline of information, science, think about
Brady Lund: th. Those different contexts think about what you're interested in. And you're going to see in our weekly activities. We have the question, quote, react format, and that provides you with the opportunity to kind of explore a little bit more the context that you're interested in within our discipline, so that might be librarianship.
Brady Lund: I'm sure there's a fair number of students enrolled in this course that are interested in the library context. But if you're not interested in the library context, think about then, and select readings that are going to be related to your interests within information science, how you're going to apply these concepts of how humans interact with information how humans interact with technology to your context.
Brady Lund: because we really can apply it to pretty much any discipline from data science to learning technologies, to sociology, to health science, we're always interacting with information. We're always interacting with technology. So think about it through that lens. How can we use this knowledge to further our understanding of the world around us, to improve what we're doing within our discipline.
Brady Lund: Alright. So that's our 1st module here.
Brady Lund: Please work through the readings read through the module introduction and our activities, and I will,
Brady Lund: of course, provide you feedback, and I'll look forward to seeing you again in Module 2.
Brady Lund: Thank you.